README.md, before:

# MuninPiholePlugins
Munin plugins for monitoring Pi-hole (tested with Pi-hole v4.3 - https://pi-hole.net)

## Plugins
* `pihole_queries` show the queries rates (total dns queries and blocked queries/ads rates). The daily graph from this plugin should have a curve pace very similar to the one from the Pi-hole web interface.
* `pihole_cache` shows the queries cache rates (forwarded and cached queries rates)
* `pihole_clients` shows the unique clients statistics (counter which is reset every day).
* `pihole_querytypes` shows the percentage of DNS query types like A, AAAA, etc.

## Configuration

The Pi-hole web interface need to be installed in order to have the plugins working (they use the web interface api).

Sample setup for '/etc/munin/plugin-conf.d/munin-node':
```
[pihole_*]
user root
env.host 127.0.0.1
env.port 80
env.api /admin/api.php
env.pw secret
```
The password `env.pw` is only needed for `pihole_querytypes` and is the password of the Pi-hole web interface.

## Samples

### Graphs

**Queries graph in Pi-hole:**

![pihole](samples/pihole.png)

**Queries graph in Munin (daily):**

![pihole_queries-day](samples/pihole_queries-day.png)

**Queries graph in Munin (weekly):**

![pihole_queries-week](samples/pihole_queries-week.png)

**Cache graph in Munin (daily):**

![pihole_cache-day](samples/pihole_cache-day.png)

**Clients graph in Munin (weekly):**

![pihole_queries-week](samples/pihole_clients-week.png)

Commit message:

added note regarding new auth url since Pihole Web v5.18 (see https://pi-hole.net/blog/2022/11/17/upcoming-changes-authentication-for-more-api-endpoints-required/#page-content)

README.md, after:

# MuninPiholePlugins
Munin plugins for monitoring Pi-hole (tested with [Pi-hole](https://pi-hole.net) v5.17)

## Plugins
* `pihole_queries` show the queries rates (total dns queries and blocked queries/ads rates). The daily graph from this plugin should have a curve pace very similar to the one from the Pi-hole web interface.
* `pihole_cache` shows the queries cache rates (forwarded and cached queries rates)
* `pihole_clients` shows the unique clients statistics (counter which is reset every day).
* `pihole_querytypes` shows the percentage of DNS query types like A, AAAA, etc.

## Configuration

The Pi-hole web interface need to be installed in order to have the plugins working (they use the web interface api).

Sample setup for '/etc/munin/plugin-conf.d/munin-node':
```
[pihole_*]
user root
env.host 127.0.0.1
env.port 80
env.api /admin/api.php
env.pw secret
```
The password `env.pw` is only needed for `pihole_querytypes` and is the password of the Pi-hole web interface.

In case that your Pihole is password protected, [Pi-hole Web v5.18](https://pi-hole.net/blog/2022/12/21/pi-hole-ftl-v5-20-and-web-v5-18-released/#page-content)  
introduced more security for their API endpoints and these are now secured by an API token.  
Therewith the config url needs to be changed to
```
env.api /admin/api.php?summaryRaw&auth=<API_TOKEN>
```

## Samples

### Graphs

**Queries graph in Pi-hole:**

![pihole](samples/pihole.png)

**Queries graph in Munin (daily):**

![pihole_queries-day](samples/pihole_queries-day.png)

**Queries graph in Munin (weekly):**

![pihole_queries-week](samples/pihole_queries-week.png)

**Cache graph in Munin (daily):**

![pihole_cache-day](samples/pihole_cache-day.png)

**Clients graph in Munin (weekly):**

![pihole_queries-week](samples/pihole_clients-week.png)
